README.md, before:

## The collected papers of F. W. Lawvere

Please inform us of any inaccuracies or missing works.

| Title | Date |
|:------|:----:|
|[The Category of Probabilistic Mappings – With Applications to Stochastic Processes, Statistics, and Pattern Recognition](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1962-the-category-of-probabilistic-mappings.pdf)|1962|
|[Functorial Semantics of Algebraic Theories (thesis with commentary)](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1963-functorial-semantics-of-algebraic-theories.pdf)|1963|
|[Functorial Semantics of Algebraic Theories (short)](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1963-functorial-semantics-of-algebraic-theories-(short).pdf)|1963|
|[An Elementary Theory of the Category of Sets](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1964-an-elementary-theory-of-the-category-of-sets.pdf)|1964|
|[Algebraic Theories, Algebraic Categories, and Algebraic Functors](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/algebraic-theories-algebraic-categories-and-algebraic-functors.pdf)|1965|
|[Category of Categories as a Foundation for Mathematics](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1966-category-of-categories-as-a-foundation-for-mathematics.pdf)|1966|
|[Adjointness in Foundations](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1969-adjointness-in-foundations.pdf)|1969|
|[Diagonal Arguments and Cartesian Closed Categories](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1969-diagonal-arguments-and-cartesian-closed-categories.pdf)|1969|
|[Ordinal Sums and Equational Doctrines](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1969-ordinal-sums-and-equational-doctrines.pdf)|1969|
|[Equality in Hyperdoctrines and Comprehension Schema as an Adjoint Functor](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1970-equality-in-hyperdoctrines-and-comprehension-schema-as-an-adjoint-functor.pdf)|1970|
|[Quantifiers and Sheaves](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1971-quantifiers-and-sheaves.pdf)|1971|
|[Introduction to Toposes, Algebraic Geometry and Logic (LNM 274)](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1971-introduction-to-toposes-algebraic-geometry-and-logic.pdf)|1971|
|[Metric Spaces Generalized Logic Closed Categories](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1973-metric-spaces-generalized-logic-closed-categories.pdf)|1973|
|[Introduction to Model Theory & Topoi (LNM 445)](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1975-introduction-to-model-theory-and-topoi.pdf)|1975|
|[Continuously Variable Sets – Algebraic Geometry=Geometric Logic](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1975-continuously-variable-sets-algebraic-geometry--geometric-logic.pdf)|1975|
|[Variable Quantities and Variable Structures in Topoi](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1976-variable-quantities-and-variable-structures-in-topoi.pdf)|1976|
|[Toward the Description in a Smooth Topos of the Dynamically Possible Motions and Deformations of a Continuous Body](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1980-toward-the-description-in-a-smooth-topos-of-the-dynamically-possible-motions-and-deformations-of-a-continuous-body.pdf)|1980|
|[Introduction to Categories in Continuum Physics (LNM 1174)](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1982-introduction-to-categories-in-continuum-physics.pdf)|1982|
|[Functorial Remarks on the General Concept of Chaos](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1984-functorial-remarks-on-the-general-concept-of-chaos.pdf)|1984|
|[State Categories Closed Categories and the Existence of Semi-continuous Entropy Functions](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1984-state-categories-closed-categories-and-the-existence-of-semi-continuous-entropy-functions.pdf)|1984|
|[Categories of Spaces may not be Generalized Spaces as Exemplified by Directed Graphs](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1986-categories-of-spaces-may-not-be-generalized-spaces-as-exemplified-by-directed-graphs.pdf)|1986|
|[Taking Categories Seriously](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1986-taking-categories-seriously.pdf)|1986|
|[Display of Graphics and their Applications Exemplifed by 2 Categories and the Hegelian Taco](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1989-display-of-graphics-and-their-applications-exemplifed-by-2-categories-and-the-hegelian-taco.pdf)|1989|
|[Qualitative Distinctions Between Some Toposes of Generalized Graphs](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1989-qualitative-distinctions-between-some-toposes-of-generalized-graphs.pdf)|1989|
|[Intrinsic Co-Heyting Boundaries and the Leibniz Rule in Certain Toposes](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1991-intrinsic-co-heyting-boundaries-and-the-leibniz-rule-in-certain-toposes.pdf)|1991|
|[More on Graphic Toposes](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1991-more-on-graphic-toposes.pdf)|1991|
|[Some Thoughts on the Future of Category Theory](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1991-some-thoughts-on-the-future-of-category-theory.pdf)|1991|
|[Categories of Space and Quantity](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1992-categories-of-space-and-quantity.pdf)|1992|
|[Cohesive Toposes and Cantor's Lauter Einsen](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1994-cohesive-toposes-and-cantors-lauter-einsen.pdf)|1994|
|[Tools for the Advancement of Objective Logic Closed Categories and Toposes](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1994-tools-for-the-advancement-of-objective-logic-closed-categories-and-toposes.pdf)|1994|
|[Adjoints in and among Bicategories](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1996-adjoints-in-and-among-bicategories.pdf)|1996|
|[Grassmann's Dialectics and Category Theory](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1996-grassmans-dialectics-and-category-theory.pdf)|1996|
|[Unity and Identity of Opposites in Calculus and Physics](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1996-unity-and-identity-of-opposites-in-calculus-and-physics.pdf)|1996|
|[Toposes of Laws of Motion](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1997-toposes-of-laws-of-motion.pdf)|1997|
|[Volterra's Functionals and Covariant Cohesion of Space](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1997-volterras-functionals-and-covariant-cohesion-of-space.pdf)|1997|
|[Outline of Synthetic Differential Geometry](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1998-outline-of-synthetic-differential-geometry.pdf)|1998|
|[Kinship and Mathematical Categories](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1999-kinship-and-mathematical-categories.pdf)|1999|
|[Comments on the Development of Topos Theory](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2000-comments-on-the-development-of-topos-theory.pdf)|2000|
|[The Role of Cartesian Closed Categories in Foundations (Interview with Felice Cardone)](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2000-cardone-interview.pdf)|2000|
|[Categorical Algebra for Continuum Micro Physics](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2001-categorical-algebra-for-continuum-micro-physics.pdf)|2001|
|[How Algebraic is Algebra? (with J. Adámek & J. Rosický)](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2001-how-algebraic-is-algebra.pdf)|2001|
|[Linearization of Graphic Toposes via Coxeter Groups](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2002-linearization-of-graphic-toposes-via-coxeter-groups.pdf)|2002|
|[Open Problems in Topos Theory](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2002-open-problems-in-topos-theory.pdf)|2002|
|[Foundations and Applications – Axiomatization and Education](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2003-foundations-and-applications-axiomatization-and-education.pdf)|2003|
|[Continuous Categories Revisited (with J. Adámek & J. Rosický)](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2003-continuous-categories-revisited.pdf)|2003|
|[Functorial Concepts of Complexity for Finite Automata](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2004-functorial-concepts-of-complexity-for-finite-automata.pdf)|2004|
|[Left and Right Adjoint Operations on Spaces and Data Types](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2004-left-and-right-adjoint-operations-on-spaces-and-data-types.pdf)|2004|
|[Grassmann Book Reviews](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2005-book-reviews.pdf)|2005|
|[Axiomatic Cohesion](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2007-axiomatic-cohesion.pdf)|2007|
|[Core Varieties Extensivity and Rig Geometry](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2008-core-varieties-extensivity-and-rig-geometry.pdf)|2008|
|[Interview with Jorge Picado](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2008-picado-interview.pdf)|2008|
|[The Hopf Algebra of Möbius Intervals (with M. Menni)](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2010-the-hopf-algebra-of-mobius-intervals.pdf)|2010|
|[Internal Choice Holds in the Discrete Part of any Cohesive Topos Satisfying Stable Connected Codiscreteness (with M. Menni)](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2015-internal-choice-holds-in-the-discrete-part-of-any-cohesive-topos-satisfying-stable-connected-codiscreteness.pdf)|2015|
|[Birkhoff's Theorem from a Geometric Perspective: A Simple Example](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2016-birkhoffs-theorem-from-a-geometric-perspective-a-simple-example.pdf)|2016|

Commit message:

add perugia notes and other misc

README.md, after:

## The collected papers of F. W. Lawvere

Please inform us of any inaccuracies or missing works.

| Title | Date |
|:------|:----:|
|[The Category of Probabilistic Mappings – With Applications to Stochastic Processes, Statistics, and Pattern Recognition](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1962-the-category-of-probabilistic-mappings.pdf)|1962|
|[Functorial Semantics of Algebraic Theories (thesis with commentary)](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1963-functorial-semantics-of-algebraic-theories.pdf)|1963|
|[Functorial Semantics of Algebraic Theories (short)](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1963-functorial-semantics-of-algebraic-theories-(short).pdf)|1963|
|[An Elementary Theory of the Category of Sets](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1964-an-elementary-theory-of-the-category-of-sets.pdf)|1964|
|[Algebraic Theories, Algebraic Categories, and Algebraic Functors](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/algebraic-theories-algebraic-categories-and-algebraic-functors.pdf)|1965|
|[Category of Categories as a Foundation for Mathematics](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1966-category-of-categories-as-a-foundation-for-mathematics.pdf)|1966|
|[Adjointness in Foundations](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1969-adjointness-in-foundations.pdf)|1969|
|[Diagonal Arguments and Cartesian Closed Categories](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1969-diagonal-arguments-and-cartesian-closed-categories.pdf)|1969|
|[Ordinal Sums and Equational Doctrines](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1969-ordinal-sums-and-equational-doctrines.pdf)|1969|
|[Equality in Hyperdoctrines and Comprehension Schema as an Adjoint Functor](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1970-equality-in-hyperdoctrines-and-comprehension-schema-as-an-adjoint-functor.pdf)|1970|
|[Quantifiers and Sheaves](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1971-quantifiers-and-sheaves.pdf)|1971|
|[Introduction to Toposes, Algebraic Geometry and Logic (LNM 274)](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1971-introduction-to-toposes-algebraic-geometry-and-logic.pdf)|1971|
|[Theory of Categories over a Base Topos (Perugia Lecture Notes)](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1972-perugia-lecture-notes.pdf)|1972|
|[Metric Spaces Generalized Logic Closed Categories](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1973-metric-spaces-generalized-logic-closed-categories.pdf)|1973|
|[Introduction to Model Theory & Topoi (LNM 445)](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1975-introduction-to-model-theory-and-topoi.pdf)|1975|
|[Variable Sets Etendu and Variable Structure in Topoi](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1975-variable-sets-etendu-and-variable-structure-in-topoi.pdf)|1975|
|[Continuously Variable Sets – Algebraic Geometry=Geometric Logic](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1975-continuously-variable-sets-algebraic-geometry--geometric-logic.pdf)|1975|
|[Variable Quantities and Variable Structures in Topoi](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1976-variable-quantities-and-variable-structures-in-topoi.pdf)|1976|
|[Toward the Description in a Smooth Topos of the Dynamically Possible Motions and Deformations of a Continuous Body](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1980-toward-the-description-in-a-smooth-topos-of-the-dynamically-possible-motions-and-deformations-of-a-continuous-body.pdf)|1980|
|[Introduction to Categories in Continuum Physics (LNM 1174)](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1982-introduction-to-categories-in-continuum-physics.pdf)|1982|
|[Functorial Remarks on the General Concept of Chaos](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1984-functorial-remarks-on-the-general-concept-of-chaos.pdf)|1984|
|[State Categories Closed Categories and the Existence of Semi-continuous Entropy Functions](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1984-state-categories-closed-categories-and-the-existence-of-semi-continuous-entropy-functions.pdf)|1984|
|[Categories of Spaces may not be Generalized Spaces as Exemplified by Directed Graphs](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1986-categories-of-spaces-may-not-be-generalized-spaces-as-exemplified-by-directed-graphs.pdf)|1986|
|[Taking Categories Seriously](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1986-taking-categories-seriously.pdf)|1986|
|[On the Complete Lattice of Essential Localizations](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1988-on-the-complete-lattice-of-essential-localizations.pdf)|1988|
|[Display of Graphics and their Applications Exemplifed by 2 Categories and the Hegelian Taco](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1989-display-of-graphics-and-their-applications-exemplifed-by-2-categories-and-the-hegelian-taco.pdf)|1989|
|[Qualitative Distinctions Between Some Toposes of Generalized Graphs](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1989-qualitative-distinctions-between-some-toposes-of-generalized-graphs.pdf)|1989|
|[Intrinsic Co-Heyting Boundaries and the Leibniz Rule in Certain Toposes](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1991-intrinsic-co-heyting-boundaries-and-the-leibniz-rule-in-certain-toposes.pdf)|1991|
|[More on Graphic Toposes](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1991-more-on-graphic-toposes.pdf)|1991|
|[Some Thoughts on the Future of Category Theory](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1991-some-thoughts-on-the-future-of-category-theory.pdf)|1991|
|[Categories of Space and Quantity](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1992-categories-of-space-and-quantity.pdf)|1992|
|[Cohesive Toposes and Cantor's Lauter Einsen](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1994-cohesive-toposes-and-cantors-lauter-einsen.pdf)|1994|
|[Tools for the Advancement of Objective Logic Closed Categories and Toposes](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1994-tools-for-the-advancement-of-objective-logic-closed-categories-and-toposes.pdf)|1994|
|[Adjoints in and among Bicategories](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1996-adjoints-in-and-among-bicategories.pdf)|1996|
|[Grassmann's Dialectics and Category Theory](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1996-grassmans-dialectics-and-category-theory.pdf)|1996|
|[Unity and Identity of Opposites in Calculus and Physics](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1996-unity-and-identity-of-opposites-in-calculus-and-physics.pdf)|1996|
|[Toposes of Laws of Motion](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1997-toposes-of-laws-of-motion.pdf)|1997|
|[Volterra's Functionals and Covariant Cohesion of Space](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1997-volterras-functionals-and-covariant-cohesion-of-space.pdf)|1997|
|[Outline of Synthetic Differential Geometry](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1998-outline-of-synthetic-differential-geometry.pdf)|1998|
|[Kinship and Mathematical Categories](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/1999-kinship-and-mathematical-categories.pdf)|1999|
|[Comments on the Development of Topos Theory](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2000-comments-on-the-development-of-topos-theory.pdf)|2000|
|[The Role of Cartesian Closed Categories in Foundations (Interview with Felice Cardone)](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2000-cardone-interview.pdf)|2000|
|[Categorical Algebra for Continuum Micro Physics](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2001-categorical-algebra-for-continuum-micro-physics.pdf)|2001|
|[How Algebraic is Algebra? (with J. Adámek & J. Rosický)](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2001-how-algebraic-is-algebra.pdf)|2001|
|[Linearization of Graphic Toposes via Coxeter Groups](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2002-linearization-of-graphic-toposes-via-coxeter-groups.pdf)|2002|
|[Open Problems in Topos Theory](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2002-open-problems-in-topos-theory.pdf)|2002|
|[Foundations and Applications – Axiomatization and Education](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2003-foundations-and-applications-axiomatization-and-education.pdf)|2003|
|[Continuous Categories Revisited (with J. Adámek & J. Rosický)](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2003-continuous-categories-revisited.pdf)|2003|
|[Functorial Concepts of Complexity for Finite Automata](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2004-functorial-concepts-of-complexity-for-finite-automata.pdf)|2004|
|[Left and Right Adjoint Operations on Spaces and Data Types](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2004-left-and-right-adjoint-operations-on-spaces-and-data-types.pdf)|2004|
|[Grassmann Book Reviews](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2005-book-reviews.pdf)|2005|
|[Axiomatic Cohesion](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2007-axiomatic-cohesion.pdf)|2007|
|[Core Varieties Extensivity and Rig Geometry](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2008-core-varieties-extensivity-and-rig-geometry.pdf)|2008|
|[Interview with Jorge Picado](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2008-picado-interview.pdf)|2008|
|[The Hopf Algebra of Möbius Intervals (with M. Menni)](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2010-the-hopf-algebra-of-mobius-intervals.pdf)|2010|
|[Euler's Continuum Functorially Vindicated](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2011-euler's-continuum-functorially-vindicated.pdf)|2011|
|[Internal Choice Holds in the Discrete Part of any Cohesive Topos Satisfying Stable Connected Codiscreteness (with M. Menni)](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2015-internal-choice-holds-in-the-discrete-part-of-any-cohesive-topos-satisfying-stable-connected-codiscreteness.pdf)|2015|
|[Birkhoff's Theorem from a Geometric Perspective: A Simple Example](https://github.com/mattearnshaw/lawvere/blob/master/pdfs/2016-birkhoffs-theorem-from-a-geometric-perspective-a-simple-example.pdf)|2016|
